Sudokode

Outline
1. find an incomplete sudoku puzzle
2. For each empty square in the puzzle
  A. Define the possibilities of what could go in the square
  B. Check the row that contains the empty square
    1) check off the numbers in it's row
  B. check the columns that his the empty square
    2) check off the numbers that in it's column
  C. Check the square's box
    1) check off the numbers in the squares box
  D) if there one number left that is not checked off, put it in the square
            E) if there are two possibilities, put them in the square
3. If there are still any empty squares, repeat step 2


Pseudocode


define a class for SudokuPuzzle
define a sudoku puzzles attributes: board, squares, known/unknown numbers, setter/player?
                                    set of box centers, set of possible answers
                                    create an empty array called found numbers


Define a method that finds a square's row, and returns the values in that row
  search known/unkown numbers for elements at index/9

Define a method that returns the values in a squares column == square index / 9
  search known/unknown numbers for elements at index%9 == square index % 9

Create a method called populate boxes that takes the 2d array of box indexes and converts the index into the corresponding answer in the puzzle

Define which returns the values in box containing a square
  find the box that includes the index of the square
  use the populate boxes method to return the corresponding numbers
end

def check_all
  combines the results of check row, checks colum, checks box.
end


define a method to see if we can solve the square
  take in an array of numbers 1-9
  return uniq numbers from given numbers + possibilities 
  if possibilities = given numbers, return
end


search through the known/unkown numbers until you come to a 0
  when you find a 0
    push check all into found numbers
    solve the square
    if the square isn't solved, continue to next square.
    if the altered board is equal to the pre-altered board, it means the method has not found any solutions and cannot solve the puzzle
      end the method and let user know they need to guess or use another method to solve the board. 
    print off the board with any solutions/changes we have made to it so far. 
:( 
    













